data/misc/README.md, before:

Misc. data sets.

* hospital_beds_by_county.csv (source TBD)
* populations.csv (source TBD)
* interventions.json (manually curated)
* state.txt (State names, abbreviations and FIPS from [census.gov](https://www2.census.gov/geo/docs/reference/state.txt))

# Source data for MSAs

This directory contains a copy of data related to metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs).

The MSAs of the 1990s have led to the more modern Core-Based Statistical Areas and
consolidated metropolitan statistical areas. For more information see
https://www.census.gov/topics/housing/housing-patterns/about/core-based-statistical-areas.html

The source file `list1_2020.xls` is from the
[Census.gov Delineation Files](https://www.census.gov/geographies/reference-files/time-series/demo/metro-micro/delineation-files.html).
It is parsed by code landing in the covid-data-model repo at `libs/datasets/statistical_areas.py`.

# Source data for Health Service Areas (HSAs)

An HSA is a collection of one or more contiguous counties which are relatively self-contained with respect to hospital care. 
For more information see https://seer.cancer.gov/seerstat/variables/countyattribs/hsa.html.

The source for our county to HSA mappings is `data/misc/cdc_hsa_mapping.csv` which follows the HSA definitions used by the CDC in
their [COVID-19 Community Levels](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/your-health/covid-by-county.html).

Commit message:

Remove DC from HSA and use state-level data to fix hospital metrics (#1298)
* Remove DC from HSA and use state-level data

* Updating saved datasets at Wed Apr 20 20:45:56 UTC 2022

* re-order hsa agg

* Updating saved datasets at Thu Apr 21 19:34:36 UTC 2022

* Change if logic

* Update readme and undo last commit

* Remove added newline

* Reset static data file

* not equals -> equals

* Aggregate to HSAs before DC aggregation

* Updating saved datasets at Thu Apr 28 18:48:39 UTC 2022

* Revert data changes

* Revert data attempt 2

* Move DC check to outer conditional

* Updating saved datasets at Tue May  3 22:05:36 UTC 2022

* Revert static multiregion dataset

* Revert data change, move DC disclaimer

Co-authored-by: GitHub Action <action@github.com>

data/misc/README.md, after:

Misc. data sets.

* hospital_beds_by_county.csv (source TBD)
* populations.csv (source TBD)
* interventions.json (manually curated)
* state.txt (State names, abbreviations and FIPS from [census.gov](https://www2.census.gov/geo/docs/reference/state.txt))

# Source data for MSAs

This directory contains a copy of data related to metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs).

The MSAs of the 1990s have led to the more modern Core-Based Statistical Areas and
consolidated metropolitan statistical areas. For more information see
https://www.census.gov/topics/housing/housing-patterns/about/core-based-statistical-areas.html

The source file `list1_2020.xls` is from the
[Census.gov Delineation Files](https://www.census.gov/geographies/reference-files/time-series/demo/metro-micro/delineation-files.html).
It is parsed by code landing in the covid-data-model repo at `libs/datasets/statistical_areas.py`.

# Source data for Health Service Areas (HSAs)

An HSA is a collection of one or more contiguous counties which are relatively self-contained with respect to hospital care. 
For more information see https://seer.cancer.gov/seerstat/variables/countyattribs/hsa.html.

The source for our county to HSA mappings is `data/misc/cdc_hsa_mapping.csv` which follows the HSA definitions used by the CDC in
their [COVID-19 Community Levels](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/your-health/covid-by-county.html). We treat District of Columbia as a state, so we have removed it from the `Montgomery, MD - Prince Georges, MD` HSA.
